# Alvarez-Data-Science-Portfolio
## This is a repository for my current and upcoming data science projects! 
### Current Projects:
#### [Plenty'a Penguins](https://github.com/aalvar23nd/Alvarez-Data-Science-Portfolio/tree/af88ce7f9b140a30291651e455605052df130fe5/basic-streamlit-app):
##### "Plenty’a Penguins" is an interactive Streamlit App using the Palmer Penguins dataset. The app allows user to explore information on penguins across different islands and other variables like body mass, sex, flipper length, among others, through dynamic filtering options. Users can filter from specific variables, and then view corresponding changes in the dataset.
##### "Plenty’a Penguins" serves as my first streamlit app I have ever created. It has buildt on my data science skills by understanding basic filtering technoques, and has laid the foundation in how I understand implemented datasets into my data science portfolio. It also has introduced me to Streamlit, which I plan on using more in the future!
#### [Lessons in Tidy Data Principles](https://github.com/aalvar23nd/Alvarez-Data-Science-Portfolio/tree/b21c1d0096974ef30ff2dd343d4fdd5ba65405b8/tidydata-project):
##### "Lessons in Tidy Data Principles" aims to apply tidy data principles to a very untidy version of the '08 Olympic Medalists dataset. Some of the main tasks in this project include melting to convert the dataset's original wide format to long format as well as splitting columns to ensure multiple variables are not present within one column. By undergoing these processes, the '08 Olympic Medalists dataset becomes much easier to use and extract insights from. <br>
##### "Lessons in Tidy Data Principless" further builds upon my data science skills. I am now able to understand and utilize some basic data tidying functions to clean datasets, an important skill as I branch out and work on other research projects. With my previous streamlit app, I was able to step into a new medium and create an app that, while basic, provided a starting point for more skilled endeavors. Here, this project will act the same and give me more confidence in a tidying data, a skill every data scientist must have in their toolbox. 
#### [Lessons in Supervised Machine Learning Applications](https://github.com/aalvar23nd/Alvarez-Data-Science-Portfolio/tree/f7feaab7537a9b64500471a328f92847a6306989/MLStrealitApp):
##### "Lessons in Supervised Machine Learning Applications" allows users to an interactive streamlit app and explore the fundamentals of linear regression modeling. Users can upload their own dataet or use the one provided. Users can then train a model , evaluate its performance, and visualize outputs like prediction accuracy, residual distroibution, and variable coefficients. 
##### "Lessons in Supervised Machine Learning Applications" further builds on my data science skills. I have built my first streamlit app in model training and evaluation to help users better understand linear regression. This project has given me greater confidence in creating and using models for analysis, building a strong foundation for future projects that involve training algorothims and prediction tasks. 
#### [Lessons in Unsupervised Machine Learning: CLustering Exploration](https://github.com/aalvar23nd/Alvarez-Data-Science-Portfolio/blob/078a57982833bce425ce3de2d73cafd6f5835fe9/MLUnsupervisedApp/README.md):
##### "Lessons in Unsupervised Machine Learning: Clustering Exploration" introduces clustering through an interactive Streamlit app. Users can upload their own dataset or the one provided, the Iris dataset, to explore unsupervised machine learning. Within the app, users can choose between k-means or hierarchical clustering, select numeric variables, and visualize cluster results using PCA. The app also displays several metrics like the silhouette score and an elbow plot to dtermine the optimal number of clusters. 
##### "Lessons in Unsupervised Machine Learning: Clustering Exploration" further builds on my data science skills by using unsupervised lmachine learning workflows. This project has helped deepened my understanding of clustering evaluation and PCA visualization. These skills help further my understanidng and capabilities in communicating data insights. 
